
--- AI Research ---
Content from https://arxiv.org/pdf/2502.13270?


--- Empathy Guide ---
Content from https://files.asprtracie.hhs.gov/documents/guide-compassional-empathic-dialog-flash-card-508.pdf


--- Conversation Tips ---
Content from https://medium.com/mind-cafe/how-to-spark-interesting-conversations-with-strangers-b588f8e04994
Sign up
Sign in
Sign up
Sign in

Relaxed, inspiring essays about happiness.

Member-only story
--
Listen
Share
Over the past decade, I’ve started conversations with several thousand random strangers. Whether on the street, in public transportation, or at a cafe, I always enjoy talking to people and seeing what happens.
Sometimes, it’s a few minutes of friendly chit-chat and then a farewell; other times, we end up talking for hours, losing all track of time, and becoming great friends. That’s the power of knowing how to create interesting, exciting, and fun conversations out of thin air.
Now, I’m not one for “tricks,” canned questions, pretending to misunderstand someone, etc.; I prefer being authentic, sincere, and genuine. That way, I don’t have to remember anything; I just follow a few simple strategies to create a great outcome more times than not. Here’s how:
To have interesting conversations, the person you're talking to needs to say interesting things—but if you want them to say interesting things, you have to say interesting things too.
Sometimes, people will teach you to ask questions like, “What are your biggest goals in life? What are you most grateful for?” But I disagree because, frankly, if you’re…
--
--
Relaxed, inspiring essays about happiness.
Seen in Esquire, GQ, & Men's Health. Founder. Full-time traveler (5.5 years & counting). Upgrade your life w/ my 5 life hacks→ https://bit.ly/2IDx15y
Help
Status
About
Careers
Press
Blog
Privacy
Rules
Terms
Text to speech

--- Conversation Starters ---
Content from https://theelizabethday.substack.com/p/132-non-boring-questions-to-start
Last week, I posted a clip on Instagram of the comedian Mae Martin confessing on my podcast, How To Fail, that they hated small talk. The idea of it was enough to prevent them from going to parties and triggering a social anxiety spiral. So Martin came up with an elegant solution: they devised a list of handy quick-fire questions designed to elicit revealing, funny and interesting answers. In this way, they always had a prompt for conversation.
I shared some of Martin’s questions in the clip (for example: ‘Tortoise or Zebra? Tom Hanks or Tom Cruise?’) and I asked my followers to come up with their own. 
Well. 
To say I was flooded with replies doesn’t quite cover it. I was veritably deluged. Inundated to the point of saturation. And then I got lots of people asking me to share the best ones. So, here they are: 132 questions designed to start a conversation that goes way deeper than just chit-chatting about the weather.
Feel free to save, share and comment with your preferred non-boring conversation starters below.
What is your favourite thing about being alive?
Dog or cat person?
Is there life after death
What’s your book recommendation?
What would your job be in prison?
Have you ever been arrested?
How much can you bench?
What do you like to do?
What are your biggest insecurities?
Have you ever experienced a friendship break-up?
What’s your favourite book?
If you could wave a magic wand, what would you change about your life?
How did you decide to call your child or pet the name you did? Or: how did your parents name you?
Where have you enjoyed travelling or visiting?
What’s your favourite Billy Joel song?
What are you currently reading?
Do you know where the toilets are?
Anything weighing on your mind lately?
Any craic?
What is truth?
Favourite holiday you’ve ever been on?
If skill, experience or capability were no issue, what profession would you like to have?
What’s the one thing in your house you don’t think anyone else has?
What lunch box did you have as a kid?
Have you ever farted in a lift?
Rank your favourite forms of potato?
Shall we not talk about the weather?
If you had to be an inanimate object for a day, what would you wish to be and why?
You’re preparing for Armageddon but only allowed three types of tinned food - what would you choose?
If you had a soundtrack to your life, what would it be?
Have you ever taken a hallucinogenic drug?
What’s keeping you busy this week?
What’s your favourite sandwich?
How would you rate your day out of 10 so far and why?
Would you like to see a picture of my dog?
Fries or chips?
What’s your favourite Madonna song? (You can choose one classic and one modern).
Sweet or salty popcorn?
Red or blue?
Favourite chocolate bar or crisp?
If you were a celebrity, what reality TV show would you say yes to?
What is your favourite cheese?
What’s your favourite condiment?
What biscuit do you most identify with?
When was the last time you quit?
Would you prefer to have teeth for pubic hair or pubic hair for teeth?
What do you like to do for fun?
What’s your hot take or unpopular opinion?
What are you passionate about?
What did you eat for lunch today?
What’s one thing that surprised you about today?
What’s a totally normal thing you have never done? Mine is swim.
So what *don’t* you do?
What’s something that’s been fun for you this week?
What would be your death row meal?
Anchovies or oysters?
If you had a secret passage, where would you want it to lead?
What is your main passion in life?
What blood type are you?
Is a hamburger a sandwich?
Do you squiggle or splodge ketchup on chips?
What makes you come alive?
How will AI affect your job?
What are you most proud of about yourself?
What would your prison strategy be?
Would you rather be a duck-sized horse or a horse-sized duck?
What made you smile today?

--- Conversation Starters ---
Content from https://conversationstartersworld.com/250-conversation-starters/
Here are some great questions for starting a conversation. There are a lot of random conversation starters to get you started and then conversation questions listed by topic. You can start with the random questions or find a topic that interests you. There’s no right place to start, just scroll down to wherever you want and get started!
There are tons of ways to use these questions. I find that the most rewarding way is for everyone to pull up this list of conversation starters on a phone or tablet, and then take turns letting everyone choose a question to ask the group. Remember don’t be afraid to delve deeply into the conversation. Answering the specific question isn’t the goal, having an interesting conversation is!
The title would have you believe that there are 250 questions, but there are actually more. I’m sure you don’t mind a few more questions, right? Dig in and start having some great conversation questions!
Here are some conversation starters that span all kinds of
topics.
Always fun to follow up on the question by watching the
video they thought was funny. I’m sure you’ve got a few funny videos to share
as well.
Everyone gets stressed out at times, and everyone deals with
it differently. Find out how they deal with it and maybe pick up some extra
stress relief tips for you.
This is a great question because you can follow up with lots
of questions about what they are obsessed with. I guarantee they’ll have plenty
to talk about when it comes to what they geek out on.
Find out how they view themselves, and don’t forget to ask
follow-up questions about each of the words they chose.
See what they are into, and you’ll have plenty to talk
about. Everyone loves talking about things they love.
This one is a little off the wall, but you never know, you
might get an interesting answer. Especially by asking, “why?”
Very similar to the last one, another oldie but a goodie. 
Sure, this one is good for a general conversation starter, but
what is really nice is being able to get some ideas on what works well and is
generally awesome to have.
Similar to the perfect weekend question, this question tries
to get at what they really enjoy doing so that you can both talk about that.
If they do have tattoos, there is probably a story behind
each one. And if they don’t have any, well it’s good to know what they think
about them.
Are they an animal person? And how clever are the names they
gave their pets?
A pretty common conversation starter, but sometimes the best
ones are the ones people are used to.
Time to channel some cranky old man vibes. Kids these days,
with their stuff and their things and their hair. You know, that type of stuff.
Vacation stories! Bad or good, everyone likes talking about
their vacation. Just duck out before they start showing you pictures.
Whether it’s their job or a personal project, you can see
what they put their heart and soul into.
Find out if they are all about the gym or all about the
couch. To each their own!
See what they like to do when they are social, talk about
that activity if you can.
This is a great question because it often leads to some
wonderful stories from when they were younger. I mean, who doesn’t like
reminiscing about the good old days?
Tailor this question to the person you are talking to,
whether they work, or they are a student. Also, some people like to let off
steam, and some like to keep it positive so you can choose which way you want
the question to swing.
This question can lead to a good conversation about their
favorite song or the music they like.
Every kid goes through phases when they are REALLY into one
thing. Now you can find out what they obsessed about when they were a kid.
This one is fun because a blank check pet choice can lead to
some great answers. And you can always transition the conversation into pets
they had/have.
Who doesn’t like listening to or telling a hero story? I’m
sure it will lead to an interesting story. Even if it isn’t about them, and
just about someone they know who saved an animal or person’s life.
This one can really be a huge conversation starter if the
person you are talking to is in anyway entrepreneurial. It’s always fun to hear
and discuss new business ideas. Don’t forget to ask for lots of details about
their dream business.
Pop culture and entertainment are great topics for conversation,
and this question is a good entry point into a larger conversation about what
kind of entertainment they like.
Does everything have its place, or does their stuff roam
about?
Public speaking is high up there on the biggest fears people
have. So, I’m sure if they have, it probably left a big impression.
Sure, talking about dreams can be dull, but who knows, if
you are talking about the strangest dream they’ve EVER had, it might be pretty
interesting. Or not. Let’s see!
So, don’t immediately start bashing their opinion if you don’t like it. I mean, you asked the question after all. Let them explain why they have the opinion and their reasoning behind it. Not everyone has to have the same opinions as you. And if it’s super out there or evil, well it’s good to know so you can avoid them in the future.
An awesome question for keeping it positive, and they’ll be
talking about someone they love, so it’ll be easy to jump into a conversation
about whoever that person is and why they are so awesome.
This one may or may not have the same answer as the previous
question, so you might want to choose either this one or the previous one
depending on the type of conversation you want to have.
Find out what annoys them, chances are it probably annoys
you too. Then it’s easy to step into a conversation about annoying habits.
This one will probably lead to a good travel story. And
conversations about travel are always fun.
Find out what their day to day looks like. It’ll be easy to
start up a conversation about anything of the things they do on the regular.
Time to get nostalgic about how life was when you both were
growing up!
Are they a night owl or an early bird, time to find out!
This can easily transition into a conversation about what they like to do in
their free time.
This question will probably conjure up some wonderful
memories linked to your and their favorite season. Have fun reminiscing!
Do they care more about showing off to others or having
awesome stuff for themselves? Always good to know! And you can easily
transition into a conversation about cars you/they want or dream houses.
Probably going to get a lot of mosquito answers. But
depending on where you are and if they have a special hatred for a creature,
you might get a different answer. If you get the mosquito answer, you could
always talk about the best way to get rid of the evil pokey buzzing things.
Similar to the question about the most beautiful place
they’ve seen but this time it’s local! Who knows, you might get a tip on an
awesome local spot.
Sure, you’ll get the normal keys, cellphone, purse/wallet,
answers, but you might get to hear about a cool keepsake / lucky charm that
means a lot to them.
Find out what sites they enjoy, chances are you probably
enjoy some of the same sites. You can swap good people to follow or suggestions
for interesting sites.
An earlier question talked about annoying habits; now it’s
time to get gross with it and find out what disgusts them.
This one is another way to get into a good conversation
about travel.
So, I had to make this one a bit vague, but it can lead to
an interesting conversation about recent events. And you might just hear about
something you didn’t know happened. Just make sure to steer clear of politics.
Whether it’s at an airport, after a car broke down, or
something else, we’ve all had times where we’ve had to wait for a seemingly
endless amount of time. There is a good chance it’ll lead to a good story.
This one is a little creative and fun. They might have to
think about it for a bit, or they may have an answer right off. Don’t forget to
ask them why and what might be a good last name as well.
Everybody likes sharing and complaining about what annoys
them. Now you can find out what weird quirks annoy them.
There are all kinds of words and sayings from the past that
have fallen out of use. It can be a lot of fun to dust them off and put them
into modern sentences. If you both can’t think of any, there are plenty of
lists online.
This question can lead to some surprisingly deep answers. A
lot of how we view the world is based on what we consider to be worthwhile, and
this question tries to get at the heart of that to find out what is most
important to the person.
Everyone has something they absolutely love but might not be
in line with how people view them or how they view themselves. 
Time to learn about some cool mysteries! This one quite
often leads to several good stories.
A fun question that helps you figure out what is important
to them.
This one can get quite personal and sometimes tragic. So
just a heads up, you might want to save this one for when you know the person
well.
Every member of a group has their duties. Time to find out what role they play! Plus, you can expand the conversation into what they usually do when they hang out with different groups of friends. And if you want more questions to ask friends, we’ve got ’em.
This question is definitely unique. You’ll have to judge the
situation and who you are talking to in order to see if this question is a good
fit for the situation. It can be fun, though.
Each generation has its trends. And if you are of a similar
age, there is a good chance that you both share some similar trends that you
followed.
This is a great question to get into a conversation about
fears that you both share.
Another question that leads to a lot of fond memories and
stories to tell, but also lets you know how hopeful of the future they are and
what their ideal life would look like.
Everyone needs to blow off steam sometimes. With this
question, you can see if you share some stress relief techniques.
Another one about fear, but this one is more lighthearted.
Everyone has fears that they know are irrational.
The classic bucket list question. It’s great because it
shows you what they want out of life and what is most important to them. And
it’s easy to split off into a conversation about any of the things they
mention.
Are the all about food and the kitchen? Perhaps they prefer to
sleep or chill on the sofa? Or maybe there is a special reading nook they have.
This is another question that helps get a conversation going about what they do
in their downtime.
This one serves as a great stepping stone into a
conversation about celebrities and other people in the limelight.
This one you’ll have to be selective with, it’s not appropriate for all situations, but you might be able to get the low down on a good spot you didn’t know about. Just don’t let the conversation stray into their dating life, that can get a bit awkward. And if you need date ideas, we have 200!
Cookies at Christmas time, the smell of gas on a road trip,
the salty air of the ocean. Smell has a strong link to memories and can be a
great conversation starter.
Go for funny names, puns make great animal names. And you
could tailor it for a pet that they have or would like to get.
This is a great question to see how empathetic and prosocial
they are. And can lead to conversations about volunteering or times they’ve
helped others.
With this one, you might learn about a hidden talent, or
perhaps a hobby you didn’t know about. Both can be the beginning of an
excellent conversation.
Very similar to the fear one but a little bit broader. It
can be something happening in their life right now, something that happens
regularly, or something they think is likely to happen in the future.
Not necessarily a comedian, but a friend or family member
who always manages to make them laugh. It definitely could spin off into a
conversation about comedians, though, which would also be fun.
Wiggling ears, burping the alphabet, farting on command,
humans are weird, and we all have some weird and useless talents that are fun
to talk about.
Be careful with this one, because they may end up labeling
one of your beliefs as strange. Just be ready not to take their answer too
personally.
Hypothetical questions can be a blast to talk about. And
this is a fun one to ponder.
Hopefully, everyone has had a super thoughtful birthday wish or gift given to them. It’s a perfect question to get in a conversation about past birthdays.
For more random questions try our random questions to ask friends.
With so much great TV out there, it’s a great way to jump
into a conversation.
Chances are you probably binge-watched it as well, so it’s a
great way to talk about a shared interest.
Get ready for a lively debate, this is a golden age of TV,
and everyone has their favorites. 
There has been such a shakeup in the TV show marketplace
that who knows what is coming next and where TV is headed. There is much
speculation to be done!
They have, you have, we all have. But the real question is
which ones and how often? Is it the same old show or something new each time? Perhaps
you’ll even find your next binge-worthy show.
Even if you or the person you are talking to didn’t grow up
in the age of Saturday morning cartoons, you both probably still have some
beloved childhood cartoons.
Perfect for starting a conversation about a show you both
are into, and if you haven’t watched the show they mention, you now have a new
show to check out!
I think secretly everyone wants to inhabit one of their
favorite shows. Or maybe it’s just me. Just don’t forget to ask them why and
get lots of details.
Depending on how old the person you are talking with is,
this might be a rich vein of conversation. Boy howdy has TV changed a lot over
the years.
We all have that one show that was so good we can’t believe
it got canceled *cough* Firefly *cough*. Find out what show they fell in love
with.
While they have fallen a bit out of favor, whoever you are
talking to probably has a special love for at least one game show.
Whichever way they choose to answer will probably lead to a
pretty interesting conversation about the merits and failures of several TV
shows.
Love it or hate it, reality TV is huge. Now you can have a
conversation about why it’s so popular. If you are looking for a simpler, more
direct question, you can try the next one.
Very similar to the previous one but a little narrower. I definitely wouldn’t ask both of these, but either one will probably get you a good conversation going.
Everyone loves a good movie, so why not make it a
conversation topic!
But if you ask this question, don’t get offended because
they start hating on a movie you love. Ask them why, and just remember everyone
is entitled to their own opinion.
Pretty typical conversations starter, but a great jumping-off
point for a discussion about their favorite movies.
Feel free to transition this one into books made from
movies, movies adapted from books, or just a general conversation about books
or movies.
We’ve all got that scene that consistently chokes us up.
Find out what movie brings a tear to their eye or which movie brings on a full
sobbing fit.
Perfect for starting a great conversation about the best and
worst documentaries you’ve both seen.
There is definitely no shortage of bad movies to pick from,
so I’m sure they’ll be able to think of at least a couple of really bad movies.
You can also transition into a conversation about what makes a movie bad and
what tropes you hate in movies.
There are some BIZARRE movies out there. I’m sure you’ve
seen a few, but if you haven’t, treat yourself. There is nothing quite like a
movie so strange and terrible that it’s entertaining on a whole new level.
It’s weird, but people seem to either really like horror
movies, or they are just not into them. There don’t seem to be a lot of people
on the fence that can take them or leave them.
You can use this question to start up a conversation about
the movie they saw, the local theater, or movie theaters in general.
Maybe you saw it too, or maybe you’ll get a good
recommendation for a movie you wouldn’t normally consider.
This one is kind of a heavy one, so you might not want to
drop it to start a conversation with someone you just met. Or maybe that’s your
jam, you do you.
Big screen and big sound vs. comfort and convenience. Either way, I think we can agree, movies are pretty awesome.
Here are some conversation starters for the book lovers out
there.
A good question to see what kind of books they are into. And
if they really liked the book, well now you’ve got a good recommendation.
This can either be one when they were really young or when
they were young adults. It’s another question to draw out some fond memories.
They both have their good points and drawbacks, and often
people have a definite preference.
This one isn’t a competition. But it is great for finding
good books. If they finished the whole thing, it must have been good!
It’s funny how even people who read a lot of books usually
lean heavily in the direction of two or three genres.
Again, not a competition. No bragging. Just a fun question
for folks who love books.
This question is perfect for starting a conversation about how libraries are changing and your local library. Did you know some libraries are starting to loan tools and cooking supplies as well as books? Very cool.
Whether they read it recently or long ago, there is probably
one book that has stuck with them over the years.
Don’t forget to ask why they prefer one over the other and
get some recommendations for their choice.
Books have the power to shape and change how we view the
world. Usually for the better.
This is another one of those questions that can get quite
deep and philosophical quite quickly. So, make sure to take stock of the
situation before busting this one out.
We all had to read lots of books for school, and you both
probably read some of the same books. You might have come away with very
similar or very different opinions of the books, either way it can lead to a
good conversation.
Sure, the knee jerk reaction is to say definitely people
read more in the past. But with the spread of so many screens, I’m not so sure.

Or perhaps stayed the same, one thing is for sure, there are a ton more books out there.
Time to pump the jam! And by pump the jam, I mean ask
conversation questions about music.
Have they been playing a new favorite on repeat, reminiscing,
or just trying something new?
Definitely some great soundtracks out there and of course,
some really horrible ones as well. Feel free to transition into a conversation
about movies or game soundtracks or whatever.
This is another space where some people are really into it, and
some people hate it. 
Which song is their feel-good go to? Feel free to steal it.
Everyone needs more feel-good music in their life.
There is a ton to talk about here with all the new music
platforms; it’s never been easier to get music, whether it’s easier to find
good new music is debatable.
This is a really broad topic with a lot of avenues to follow
and can really lead to some excellent conversations.
Whether it triggers a bittersweet memory or is just a sad
song, most folks have a song that chokes them up a bit.
I can almost guarantee if they are into exercise, they have
a particular type of music that works for them. And lots of types that
definitely don’t.
No judgment, lots of people get uptight about what music
people should or should not like. But hey it’s not your ears. Come to this
question with an open mind.
There are people who think concerts are alright, and those
who REALLY love concerts. This can easily lead to a good conversation about
concerts they’ve been to.
So, this will probably pull up some cheesy music memories,
and that’s always fun. We all have some cheesy music in our past and present,
embrace it.
Yeah, this one is going to vary greatly depending on the age of the person you are talking to. Just don’t get all elitist about your preferred method of getting music to your ears, it’s not a good look.
We’ve all got a ton on our phone, why not have a conversation
about apps?
App recommendation time! Go find you some awesome new apps.
Similar to the last but a bit more specific, and although it
might not be one of their favorites, it’s one that they can’t live without.
The ads? The microtransactions? Bait and switch tactics?
There are some really annoying and shady things about apps that annoy a lot of
people.
I’m willing to bet they have no idea, and you probably don’t
either. Heck, even I don’t. Now you can count them up and compare. And probably
be surprised at how many apps you have on your phone.
Whether it be a malfunctioning app or a really frustrating
game, there are plenty of apps that get rage deleted. And you might even learn
about some that you want to avoid.
We’ve all been there. Sure, you know you should quit, but it’s just so good! Looking for another addicting game? Try some of our conversation games like never have I ever, 21 questions game, truth or dare, or our would you rather questions.
With all the tech around us, we often forget how cool it
really is. I’m sure there were apps you tried in the past, and you were just dumbfounded
with how amazing they were.
Oh, there are some weird ones out there. Now you can swap
stories of bizarre apps. And if you don’t know of any, just Google them and be
amazed.
While probably not the most thrilling conversation starter,
whoever you are talking about probably has a bit to say about where they get
their apps.
This one can get into a really deep conversation about
technology and society. Or not. It depends on how the conversation flows.
Either way I’m sure you’ll be able to get into a good conversation with this
one.
Everyone loves a good hypothetical. So, what does your mysterious/magical app do?
We’ve all got a phone, so we’ve all got something in common
to talk about.
Answers will vary, wildly. Some people hate checking their
phone, some do it compulsively.
While there are outliers, the answer to this one will depend
a LOT on age. And probably they have strong opinions about their preference,
which always makes for a good conversation. As long as you don’t start arguing
with them.
Pure speculation, but why not? Speculation is fun, and who
knows, you or the person you are talking to might be right with your guesses.
They are getting better and better, but are they getting
better in the way you want them to? What features would you like to see in the
next round of phones?
There are basically three camps. The early adopter camp, the
“it ain’t broke, don’t fix it” camp, and the “I hate new technology” camp. Find
out which one they are in.
Phones, it’s often a love-hate relationship. Now you can
both complain about your phones. Together!
For some people, they get REALLY anxious without their phone, and for some it’s just a minor inconvenience.
This is another one that people sometimes get really
passionate about, and some don’t. It might lead to a good conversation, or they
might just say, “I don’t know, I just liked how it looked.” 
Whether young or old. You’ll always remember your first.
This one goes along with the compulsive checking of phones. But I think it’s a pretty common phenomenon.
Sports! There’s a reason it’s one of the most popular
conversation topics.
Try to find one that you both have in common, or you both
follow. Once you find it, the rest of the conversation will flow naturally.
If you are into sports, you have favorite athletes. Find out
who their favorite athletes are and why they like them.
This may be very similar to which sports they like to watch,
or it could be a completely different list. Either way, talking about something
the person is passionate about is always a great way to have a good
conversation.
This one is pretty debatable. The case could be made for plenty
of sports. Give this question a go and see if you both agree.
Another one that you can debate a lot about. Probably
easiest to pick a sport to narrow it down first, though.
This one probably depends a lot on their favorite sport, and
the season it’s played in. Or they might just be super into sports. Or they
might not like sports. But if they don’t like sports, then why are you talking
to them about sports?
This one can be a little contentious at times. But it should
lead to a lively conversation no matter what side of the coin they fall on.
This one can lead to an excellent conversation because
everyone has an opinion, and all the opinions are on a sliding scale. There is
definitely a limit on what someone will consider a sport.
There a lot of people who are REALLY into fantasy sports. If
the person you are talking to is into it, they are more than happy to have a
conversation about their team. 
This is a little deeper than the normal sports question. But
it can lead to an interesting conversation about human nature with a bit of a
sports spin.
If they like sports, there is a good chance they play some
kind of video game involving sports. Even if it is just an app on their phone.
Oh yeah, everyone has an opinion about this one.
Nearly everyone enjoys going out to eat at a restaurant. So,
here are some questions to help you have a conversation about restaurants!
Which one is their go-to restaurant? This will probably tell
you a lot about what types of restaurants they like.
A lot of fast food is pretty terrible, so which is the
worst?
It may be their local go-to restaurant, or it might be one
that they only eat at for special occasions.
The sky is the limit, and so this one will probably lead to
a good story. You can also branch off into a conversation about ridiculously
expensive foods or things in general.
Bright and modern, dim and cozy, more like a bar, lots of
kitsch? Restaurant décor comes in almost as many flavors as food. So, what do
you and they like the most? Or the least?
We’ve all got one, and they are always entertaining to hear
about.
This is another one that a lot of people have thought about.
For some reason opening a restaurant appeals to a lot of people and so you’ll
probably get an interesting answer for this one.
If you haven’t heard of strangely themed restaurants, boy
howdy are you in for a roller coaster. Just Google it, people go buck wild with
restaurant themes.
How close to the food poisoning sun do you want to fly,
Icarus?
This one piggybacks on to the last question. We’ve all heard
horror stories. Now it’s your turn share yours and to hear theirs.
I find that a lot of people have really strong favorites when it comes to this period in their life.
Whether it is near or far, everyone loves a good vacation.
Most people have a spot they have their eyes and heart on.
Find out where it is, maybe you’ve been and can give them some tips.
Who doesn’t love long plane trips? Everyone! Everyone hates
long plane rides. So, find out about their horror stories and share your own.
This one probably varies a lot, depending on what country
you are in. But usually people have a favorite they like to talk about.
Are they more of a beach and chill or a cabin and chill kind
of person? Find out with this question.
They both have their benefits and drawbacks. And almost
everyone has a preference. Plus, it’s a great starting point to talk about
previous trips they’ve taken.
This one is somewhat similar to the last one but a little
more specific. If you’ve already covered a lot of tour group ground with the
last question, feel free to skip this one.
Whether it’s literally going off the beaten path like when
they are hiking, or just the figurative beaten path like a guidebook, you can
use this question to find out how adventurous they like to be.
If you’ve traveled to any popular destinations, you may have
come across this. So much hype. But a big letdown once you get there.
Depending on what country you are both from the answers to
this question vary a lot. Are you in the US? You might find most people haven’t
left the country or have just been to one or two other countries. Asking in
Europe? You’ll probably get a ton of travel stories about different countries.
This is great for getting new travel ideas for yourself. And
if you’ve been there, you can talk about your experience too.
Again, this will vary a lot based on who you are talking to
and how they travel. But chances are they have pretty strong feelings about
both questions.
So many bad hotels out there. Get ready for some horror
stories about gross stuff. Or you know, a tip about a sweet hotel you can try. It
depends on how the conversation goes.
Someone once said you are the same person you were 5 years
ago except for the places you’ve been, the people you’ve met, and the books
you’ve read. So, what do you think travel does to someone?
Oh, this one leads to rich veins of great stories. I’m sure
you have a lot of stories about interesting characters you’ve met, and they
probably do too.
Some people love them, and some don’t see the point. Either
way, there is plenty to talk about!
Is it from fellow travelers, guidebooks, the internet, social media, or a combination?
Tech, some hate it, and some love it, but even those who
love it probably have a love/hate thing going on with it. Either way, it makes
for some great conversation questions!
Let’s start it out positive and see what kind of tech they
rely on.
And now, let’s look at the dark side of tech when it just
doesn’t work the way we want it to. Probably a lot more to talk about in this
question than the previous one.
Lots of good answers to this one. You both will probably
come up with quite a few contenders. And it can be fun to debate the merits of
each.
This one sometimes leads to an interesting conversation
about tech and modern life, but if the person lands hard on one side or the
other usually there isn’t much more to talk about.
So, this is a pretty heavy question that you don’t want to
drop in casual conversation. It’s better left for conversations with people you
know quite well, or folks who you know are into this type of question.
There is a lot of promising tech fields that seem like they
are just on the horizon. So which ones are you looking forward to? And perhaps
which make you a little uneasy?
So many futures to choose from. Especially if you or the
person you are talking to is a sci-fi fan. Everything from dystopian utopias to
utopian dystopias. 
This is similar to the emerging technologies question, but
this one isn’t about playing favorites, but about which will arrive first.
Even if you don’t like sci-fi movies, you’ve probably craved
a gadget that featured in a movie or book. This can lead to a fun spin-off
conversation about gadgets.
Everybody likes making predictions about the future, it’s
one of the human race’s defining features. And another common human behavior is
fear about the future. Probably why many people are always making dire
predictions that never come to pass.
What awesome revolutionary invention would get you executed
with a quickness back in the day?
Probably you both can think of quite a few from each category. And probably plenty of tech that has made the world better and worse at the same time.
Conversation questions about clothes are always in fashion.
Whether it’s for comfort, style, or just an exceptionally
clever or funny t-shirt, everyone has a favorite.
This is a bit philosophical but can be a fun one to discuss.
If the person seems into deeper conversations, you could give this one a go.
It seems that fashion always pulls from the past. Whether
it’s coloring, types of clothes, or just the general style of a past decade. So,
which past fashion trends are they pulling from currently?
This can be the start of a fun conversation about the
ridiculous fashions that have come and gone in recent decades.
It might be their favorite t-shirt, or perhaps some comfy
pajamas. Either way there is bound to be something that they love relaxing in.
This is always a fun one, we all have some embarrassing
pieces of clothing lurking in our closet that we either secretly love or just
haven’t gotten around to tossing out.
Another one that can lead to some deeper conversations about
society or might just stay superficial. Just make sure you are in the right
social situation to ask this one.
Some people care a lot about fashion, some don’t, and some
care a lot but pretend that they don’t. Which one are they?
It might be what they are currently wearing, or it might be
something totally different. It all depends on how well their ideal clothing
matches current trends. It’s always fun, though, if the person is into cosplay
or period clothing.
Comfortable shoes that look good are a rare find. You might
just get some good tips on a new pair of kicks.
This sounds like a question from a fashion textbook, but it can actually often lead to some thoughtful answers and a good conversation.
Let’s talk about goooooooooaaaaaaaaals!
Some people are a little cagey about their personal goals,
and some are pretty open to sharing them. Just don’t make this one the first
question you ask a person. Best to get to know them a bit better before popping
this one.
Similar to the last one, but this one is a little more
specific and deals with midterm goals rather than long term goals.
Oh, I guarantee your and their goals have changed quite a
bit from 10 or 20 years ago. It’s always fun to talk about goals from the past.
The answers to this one vary a lot from person to person.
And it’s a great one to find out if they are spur of the moment or more
methodical.
Some people have a solid plan, some don’t care, and some, it
seems, are actively trying to make the world a worse place. Find out where on the
spectrum the person you are talking lands.
This one is pleasant because they get to talk about their
successes. And even if they are humble, they probably still enjoy having their
successes recognized.
Switching over from personal goals, now it’s time for a
conversation about professional goals.
For some, it might be a positive influence; for others the
pressures might have pushed them in the opposite direction. Either way, this is
a pretty personal question so make sure you know the person pretty well before
asking them this question.
Again, kind of personal, and can often lead to some bummer
conversations, so be wary of this one. Make sure you know the person before
asking this one.
Moving on from personal questions and kind of bummer
questions, this one is looking more on the bright side of life. And you might
get some good suggestions to help you achieve your own goals.
Whoops back into negative territory, while it can lead to a
good conversation, just be cognizant of how the conversation might turn with
this question.
This one is always a fun one to ask. Sometimes the person
has to think a while, and sometimes they already have it lined up. But however
long it takes them to answer, the answer is usually a really good one.
I like this question because it gets to the point of what they really want to be doing. Not what they have to be doing. You can find out a lot about a person by learning what they want to do when they aren’t obligated to be doing anything in particular.
There is a time for everything. A time to sow and a time to
reap. And a time to discuss seasons!
Fun in the sun or ummm.. furlough in the snow? There is
probably a better rhyme than that, but for now, furlough will have to do. So,
which is their jam, snow skiing or water skiing?
Whether it’s hiking or just sitting on the porch, the dawn
of spring is always a pleasant time of year.
Don’t forget to follow up by asking where they would go if
they answer yes to this one. Not everyone was lucky enough to be able to take
vacations when they were younger, but if they were it’s always fun to hear
about them.
Both are pretty amazing, and both have some really good
things going for them. But probably you and the person you are talking with
have a strong preference one way or the other.
Because the seasons are so different depending on where you
live, the answers to this one vary a lot from region to region. See if you and
the person you are talking to agree.
Whether it’s a dip in the pool, a glass of fresh lemonade,
an ice-cold beer, or something else entirely, it’s always fun to talk about the
things that make us go “Ahhhhh.”
Indoors or out? Fun or warming? Lots of different ways you
could go with this conversation starter.
The leaves changing, the crisp air, there is something so
invigorating about fall. I’m sure you have a favorite place, even if it is just
a bench in a nice park.
So much warm and delicious things to eat and drink in winter,
it’s pretty hard to decide. Don’t feel like you have to choose just one!
I imagine this one depends on where you live. Lots of people want what they don’t have. So, my guess is that if where you live has four seasons you probably want to live somewhere with a long summer. But feel free to test out my hypothesis with this question!
Time to celebrate with some holiday conversations!
Whether holidays usually end up being a big disaster or not,
there is probably at least one holiday where their family goes all out.
Whether it’s a traditional one or a newer one, everyone has
a favorite. Don’t forget to ask them why it’s their favorite, as well.
“All of them” is a totally viable answer, but this is a good
steppingstone into talking about the topic in general as well as some of the
newer holidays that seem to be popping up.
So, there are a TON of “holidays” out there. But there could
always be more, or different ones, or less. Or even better yet more holidays
where you can take off from work or school. Those are always fun.
The traditional holidays have some buck wild history to them. We’ve got some trivia pages on the site that go into some of the history behind a few popular holidays. You can find the links to those pages below.
It wouldn’t be a holiday without food! And every holiday
tends to have its own flavors. So, find out what is traditional for them and
their family and see how it compares to your traditions.
There are definitely some holidays that could use a bit of
pruning, rebranding, or just be outright replaced. Looking at you, Columbus
Day. With this question you can find out which holidays they aren’t a fan of.
Sure, you might think that with a day off, productivity
might decrease, but happy employees do tend to get more done. So, does it even
out? Now you both can weigh in and decide together.
If you can’t think of some of the lesser-known holidays, you
can check out this page. So many
unofficial and official holidays. So many.
This one is really fun, especially if the person you are talking to is in any way creative. There are basically endless amounts of crazy holidays you could come up with.
Sharpen your pencils. It’s time for an education
conversation.
Whether it be online courses for schools, Khan Academy, or
tutorials on YouTube there is lots of education happening online. If the person
you are talking to is into education this is a rich vein for conversations.
Love them or hate them, they are an entrenched part of the
school system. You could talk about possible improvements, how effective or
ineffective they are, and if there are any viable alternatives.
Most people will agree that small class sizes are better.
But how about the whole school? What are the pros and cons of a small or a big
school?
Are good teachers born, or are they created? Are there any
inherent traits that might make a person more likely to be a good teacher? This
one is a good pool of possible conversations to dive into.
Who doesn’t love some fortune-telling? See if your idea of
the future of education matches up with their prediction. What would be the
best outcome? What is the most likely outcome?
Homeschooling is becoming more and more popular. And with
anything, it has pros and cons. Whether you are for or against, it’s a great
topic for those who are interested in education.
Because if there is one thing I’ve learned, it’s that people
are totally happy with the public-school system and there is no room for
improvement.
And if you don’t think it’s changed your life in any way, just
imagine having no education, and you can see the impact of education.
As with anything involved with technology, the use of
technology in the classroom is hotly debated. Most want more, some want less.
What kind of technology would you like to see put into the classroom, and is
there any you would want to be taken out?
Is it school, friends, family, the internet? We pull
information from lots of sources. Which do you think is the best source for
good information?
This kind of brings all the previous questions together in a big whopper of a question. Get ready for a long conversation with this question.
Whether they are a foodie or not, everyone has to eat, and
that makes it a great topic to have a conversation about.
Everyone has a favorite type of food, whether it be
international or local. And even if it is international cuisine, there is
probably a local spin to it. This question transitions nicely into what their
favorite foods are.
Everyone has foods they can’t stand. And they usually like
talking about why they hate them so much!
With this one, you might have to consider how the person
might take it. If they are a little on the heavier side, they might think you
are making a comment about their weight. Just a heads up, so you don’t offend
anyone accidentally.
Who doesn’t love a good food fight? Well, I guess anyone who
doesn’t want food on their clothes… or anyone who doesn’t like wasting food…  but still they can be fun.
There are so many foods out there that are like this. My
guess is that you can think of a couple off the top of your head, and I bet
whoever you are talking to can as well!
We all have that one snack or treat that we just can’t get
enough of. And who knows you might just find your next favorite snack by asking
this question.
Definitely a weird one. But it can be fun depending on how
creative you both get with it. The fun is in the explanation of why it would be
that kind of meal.
What’s the perfect meal to go out on?
Don’t worry, I think we all do. And probably the person you
are talking to has one as well.
And have you seen some of the videos of people eating spicy
food or peppers? Whew, some of those look really painful, especially when they
wipe tears away, and it gets in their eyes. Ouch.
This can definitely get political, so fair warning you may
want to avoid this one if you don’t want to get into a conversation about
politics and regulation.
Some people like to know when they get something wrong, and some definitely don’t. Are you one of the people that gets annoyed when someone corrects you about food, or do you appreciate being corrected?
Bring your creativity; you are going to need it.
Whoa, dude, we are all like islands unto ourselves.
So many flavor possibilities. I want spicy ice cream. I know
it’s probably out there; I just haven’t run across it yet.
Animal, ethnic stereotype, or something more abstract?
Just remember it can be any shape, size, and be made out of
any combination of things.
Time to find out what kind of person they really are!
Welcome to Groundhog Day, but now you get to pick. Also,
there is no way out, infinite loop, but you can do whatever you want on each
day.
Put your Dante hat on and get to creating!
Yeah, I know there was a lame movie about this. But it is
still a pretty cool hypothetical.
You could learn something from them by asking questions, you
could try to convince them to do something or not do something, or you could
just try to befriend them.
I’m not sure if this has been made into a really cheesy
horror film, but if it hasn’t, it should be.
You don’t know if what’s on the other side is bad or good,
but you’ll need to make a choice relatively quickly.
Sure 276 questions is a lot, but how about more than 1,000 extra questions!
Privacy Policy
About Conversation Starters World
Contact Page
Copyright © 2026 Conversation Starters World
